Upgrading Podist
================

This guide only lists upgrades which require manual action. Some
upgrades also make automatic changes, for example to the database
schema; those changes aren't always documented here.

The most recent version with upgrade requirements is listed first.


How to See the Current Defaults
-------------------------------

It can be useful to see what a default configuration looks like. The
easiest way to do that is to run Podist with a non-default configuration
directory, which will cause a default config to be written there:

   Podist -c ~/tmp-podist-conf
   [0] Podist has not been configured. Please review this configuration file
   [0] and set NotYetConfigured to false:
   [0]     /home/anthony/tmp-podist-conf/podist.conf

then you can review the generated podist.conf to see what the current
file looks like. Comparing this to your existing config is recommended.

Database Cleanup
----------------

Sometimes migrations leave backup tables around, generally due to SQLite
limitations (e.g., incomplete ALTER TABLE support). Currently, you may
have an "enclosures_v1" and an "enclosures_v7"; both of those can be
dropped once you're sure the upgrade is successful.

Upgrading to 0.4
----------------

WARNING: Very old versions of Podist did not create a separate media
subdirectory for each playlist. The author has 7 playlists like that (he
suspects the *only* 7). This version of Podist drops support for that
except for archived playlists. If you have any, make sure they are
archived before upgrading!

Podist 0.4 introduces the ability to process audio files. Initially,
this is just to volume-level them and (optionally) reduce dynamic range
(e.g., for listening in a noisy environment). But it's intended to
eventually allow things like splitting podcasts in to segments, dropping
duplicate segments, etc. This required changing how files are organized
on disk. It also required schema changes, but those are handled
automatically.

The <storage> section of the config has changed. PendingMedia,
UnusableMedia, ArchivedMedia, Playlists, ArchivedPlaylists, and
RandomMedia remain unchanged. PlaylistedMedia is gone; in its place
are two new directory options: OriginalMedia and ProcessedMedia. In
addition, there is a new ArchivedProcessed.

When a playlist is created, the original file is moved to
OriginalMedia/«playlist#» and processed files are created (including
speech) in ProcessedMedia/«playlist#». Archiving a playlist now moves
files from OriginalMedia to ArchivedMedia and files in ProcessedMedia
are either moved to ArchivedProcessed or deleted.

In addition to changing your configuration, you may need to move some
files around. For example, if you re-use your old PlaylistedMedia for
ProcessedMedia, you need to *copy* those files to OriginalMedia (except
for the speech.* files)! Otherwise archiving will fail. Alternatively,
move them and have Podist process the audio (FIXME: write how once it
works).

A new "archival" section is added; it has one parameter: Processed,
which can be "yes", "no", or "speech-only" (the default, to preserve
previous behavior). Note that if you want the archived .m3us full of
processed files to work, you need to set this to yes (which will greatly
increase required disk space). Of course, original files are always
saved, so you could just reprocess them (or listen to the originals) if
needed.

The <feed> section gains a <include> subsection, specifying which items
to include in the feed. Podcasts are (of course) always included. The
optional ones are "Speeches", "Intermissions" (random music between
podcasts), and "Leadout" (the lead-out after podcasts are over). Default
is to include only intermissions.

Next, to the main section (e.g., right under "NotYetConfigured false")
you need to add "ConfigVersion 2". This will be used in the future when
manual config changes are needed.

Finally, run Podist fsck which will attempt to locate all your existing
media files.
